must-gather-2.0-4.15-4.14 (#93604)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/using-must-gather.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/using-the-must-gather-tool.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="oadp-running-must-gather_{context}"]
= Using the must-gather tool

You can run the `must-gather` tool with the following options. To use an option, you can add a flag corresponding to that option in the `must-gather` command.

> Default configuration:: This configuration collects pod logs, {oadp-short} and `Velero` custom resource (CR) information for all namespaces where the {oadp-short} Operator is installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Default configuration:: This configuration collects pod logs, and {oadp-short} and `Velero` custom resource (CR) information for all namespaces where the {oadp-short} Operator is installed.
```

Timeout:: Data collection can take a long time if there are many failed `Backup` CRs. You can improve performance by setting a timeout value.
Insecure TLS connections:: If a custom CA certificate is used, use the `must-gather` tool with  insecure TLS connections.

> The `must-gather` tool generates a Markdown output file with the collected information. The Markdown file is located in a cluster directory.

Reviewer: > The Markdown file is located in a cluster directory. 

This seems a bit vaugue.
```suggestion
The `must-gather` tool generates a Markdown output file with the collected information to a location on the cluster that you specify.
```

.Prerequisites

* You have logged in to the {product-title} cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* You are using {oadp-short} 1.3 or 1.4.

.Procedure

. Navigate to the directory where you want to store the `must-gather` data.
. Run the `oc adm must-gather` command for one of the following data collection options:

* To use the default configuration of the `must-gather` tool, run the following command:

** For {oadp-short} 1.3, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc adm must-gather --image={must-gather-v1-3}
----
+
** For {oadp-short} 1.4, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc adm must-gather --image={must-gather-v1-4}
----
+

> * To use the timeout flag with the `must-gather` tool, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To use the timeout flag with the `must-gather` tool, run one of the following commands:
```

** For {oadp-short} 1.3, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc adm must-gather --image={must-gather-v1-3} -- /usr/bin/gather --request-timeout 1m # <1>
----

> <1> In this example, the timeout is 1 minute.

Reviewer: Do we want a sentence like the 1.4 command to be parallel?  What values are accepted: minute, seconds, etc?

```suggestion
<1> Specify a timeout value. In this example, the timeout is 1 minute.
```

> [source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
> ----
> $ oc adm must-gather --image={must-gather-v1-3} -- /usr/bin/gather --request-timeout 1m # <1>
> ----
> <1> In this example, the timeout is 1 minute.

Reviewer: Do we want to make it generic like the 1.4 command to be parallel?  What values are accepted: minute, seconds, etc?
```suggestion
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc adm must-gather --image={must-gather-v1-3} -- /usr/bin/gather --request-timeout <timeout> # <1>
----
<1> Specify a timeout value.
```

+
** For {oadp-short} 1.4, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc adm must-gather --image={must-gather-v1-4} -- /usr/bin/gather_with_timeout <timeout> # <1>
----
<1> Specify a timeout value in seconds.

> * To use the insecure TLS connection flag with the `must-gather` tool, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To use the insecure TLS connection flag with the `must-gather` tool, run one of the following commands:
```

** For {oadp-short} 1.3, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc adm must-gather --image={must-gather-v1-3} -- /usr/bin/gather --skip-tls
----
+
** For {oadp-short} 1.4, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----

> $ oc adm must-gather --image={must-gather-v1-4} -- /usr/bin/gather_without_tls <true/false> # <1>

Reviewer: We use the `<true/false>` construction very rarely. Maybe make it generic:

```suggestion
$ oc adm must-gather --image={must-gather-v1-4} -- /usr/bin/gather_without_tls <value> # <1>
```

----
<1> By default, the flag value is set to false. Set the value to true to allow insecure TLS connections.

> * To use a combination of the insecure TLS connection, and the timeout flags with the `must-gather` tool, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To use a combination of the insecure TLS connection, and the timeout flags with the `must-gather` tool, run one of the following commands:
```

** For {oadp-short} 1.3, run the following command:
+

> [source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
> ----
> $ oc adm must-gather --image={must-gather-v1-3} -- /usr/bin/gather --request-timeout 15s --skip-tls #<1>
> ----
> <1> In this example, the timeout is 15 seconds. By default, the `--skip-tls` flag value is `false`. Set the value to `true` to allow insecure TLS connections.

Reviewer: Maybe an example with skip-tls set tur `true`?

```suggestion
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc adm must-gather --image={must-gather-v1-3} -- /usr/bin/gather --request-timeout 15s --skip-tls=true #<1>
----
<1> In this example, the timeout is 15 seconds. By default, the `--skip-tls` flag value is `false`. Set the value to `true` to allow insecure TLS connections.
```

+
** For {oadp-short} 1.4, run the following command:
+

> [source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
> ----
> $ oc adm must-gather --image={must-gather-v1-4} --skip_tls=true /usr/bin/gather_with_timeout <timeout_value_in_seconds>
> ----

Reviewer: Callout? 
```suggestion
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc adm must-gather --image={must-gather-v1-4} --skip_tls=true /usr/bin/gather_with_timeout <timeout_value_in_seconds> #<1>
----
<1> By default, the `--skip-tls` flag value is `false`. Set the value to `true` to allow insecure TLS connections. Specify a timeout value.
```
